>> Shirley Wu: Sometimes,
maybe you don't want to do it by hand,
because it's like still a lot of work, and
that's when this thing called D3 shapes,
the shapes library the module
comes in super super useful.
So this one D3 shape is the module and
then,
it essentially has some
convenience functions for
you, for drawing like pie charts,
or line charts or
aerial curves these are some of
the things that it helps you do,
and this module is absolutely
amazing because It takes
care of figuring out that D attribute, so
you don't have to.
>> Shirley Wu: So like all of these
you can like, you just pass in data and
they like figures out what the D attribute
should be and then you take that and then
you apply it and then you just get this.
So basically, d3-shape calculates
the path attribute so we don't have to.
So for example, this little line chart,
this is actually the same temperature data
that we were doing with the bar chart.
So,
>> Shirley Wu: This,
the de-attribute for
this line chart looks like this.
And that's definitely not something
that you want to write by hand,
ever.
>> Shirley Wu: So
d3 shapes makes this easy.
And here are some other
examples of d3 shapes.
So this is basically an area chart.
Actually, let me,
can you guys see that fine?
So these are like area charts and
then just different curves that connect
the different points like this one's
kind of curvy and this one's block e.
And those are, and
that's something that you can also specify
with a curve generator with D3 shape.
So there's this thing called Curves, and
then if each of these
points are a data point.
If each of these points
is a datum in data set,
how do you want them to
be connected together?
So these are all of the different
curves that are provided.
Basically, makes making
pretty looking things
really easy, because all you have to
do is like call this function and
then for just the matter of
switching between different curves,
you can get these different
effects of blocky or curvy.
So yeah.
Let's get into just two of the shapes.
I want to cover D3.line which
helps you make the line chart.
And then I want to quickly cover.
Actually, if we have time now,
I'll quickly cover the pie chart,
cuz I feel like I feel like even
though we bash on Python just a lot,
like with the database community, for some
reason, we end up using them a lot anyway.
And if we don't don't have time to cover
it then, at least it is in the slides for
you to kinda tag on and look at.
So, yeah, this is d3.line and
let's say this is our data set.
It looks a little bit different from.
Actually, it should look
the same as previous.
So we have our date,
that could be our X axis.
And we have some sort of a value
that could act as our Y axis.
Each of these objects in the array will
turn into a point in our line chart.
So this is the input,
the array of objects and all that d3.line,
actually, all that D3 line does for
us is figure
out the path attribute such that it just
draws a line through all of these points.
And that's all it's doing
underneath the hood.
And so, like once we, how we use it is,
right here, this is how we define it.
Sorry.
So we say d3.line, and
it just asks for two things.
How do I get my X and how do I get my Y?
So this should look very similar to,
>> Shirley Wu: The code is wrong.
I will fix that later.
But this should look very similar to
the bar chart we just did, where for
the X, we returned X scale and
pass and do that date.
And then, for the Y,
we use Y scale and pass in the value.
And so this tell us D3 how
it's supposed to get the x and
values of of each point so
that it can draw the line between it.
And then once we have that defined
this also returns a function and
when you see happen here is all
we have to do is say attribute
D, give me back, call line with our data.
And this will give us
back that really ugly.
This will essentially output.
This.
>> Shirley Wu: And then it will draw this.
So that whole code snippet would draw
that.
>> Shirley Wu: Yeah.
>> Shirley Wu: And that's there,
all there is to d3.line actually for
just that,
those six lines or so,
you get the beauty of that line chart.
I guess there wasn't that much to it.
So we'll go into the pie chart now.
>> Shirley Wu: [LAUGH]
I just want to make sure
the d3 line is all good.
It's like a super straightforward but
super powerful function.
Okay, so
pie chart is a little bit more involved,
in that there's actually two parts to it.
For you to, for most people,
for you to make a pie chart,
with d3, the first part being this d3.pie.
And all that does is given your data,
let's say this is your data
>> Shirley Wu: If you say d3.pie() and
then pass in that data,
all it does is it figures
out what the start angle and
end angle should be.
So it's basically saying, okay, so each of
these data points are a pie slice, right?
So the one will become a pie slice, and
then the two will become a pie slice, etc.
So if they are the pie slices, what should
be start and end angle for my one, and
what should be start and end angle for
my two, so that's all that pie does.
Figure out the start and end angle for
each of your data points in your data set.
So that you don't have to.
>> Shirley Wu: And
then you take that output,
you pass it into something called d3.arc.
So what d3.arc does is it
takes in your startAngle,
your endAngle, and you also need to
provide it with an inner and outerRadius.
So in this case, I'm just saying my
inner radius, I want that to start at 0,
and then the outer radius is 100 pixels.
If you want one of those donut shapes, you
could just be like I want my inner radius
to be 50 or 60 or whatever, as long as
it's less than your outer radius, and
that's how people make those donut shapes.
And then you like, you take that start and
angle that you got from your pie.
In this case, it's as simple as saying
like, my start angle is d.startangle.
And the angle is g.endangle.
And this, and in calling arcpie so,
calling arg, d3 arg,
on that data gives you this.
Which looks like that.
So, each of those.
>> Shirley Wu: So, each of these arc
pies will give you one of these arcs.
>> Shirley Wu: Yeah,
so this is exactly that one, one, two,
whatever, so it's like one, one, two,
three, something, something.
Yeah, that's all there is
to a pie chart with D3.
>> Shirley Wu: And then here is the code,
the whole code because it kind of
gloss over a little bit about like and
you can,
>> Shirley Wu: So
here what's happening is, here's my data.
I applied d3.pie to my data
to get like the start and
angle for all of the each of these and
that should give me,
an array of objects with star and
angles.
>> Shirley Wu: Yeah,
so it's an array with the original
data star with an angle and
then if you want to provide padding
there is also the padding, and
then I'm defining my ark, and
I'm saying slairt all the paths.
Pass him this a ray of object with
start an angles inquiry of path for
each of those.
>> Shirley Wu: So this is what's
happening here, so then that creates
the eight paths on the screen.
And then call arc on each of those so
this is essentially,
>> Shirley Wu: What's
happening under the hood is d yeah.
So Is then calling arch each
single one of those like
pie slices thus creating this pie chart.
And that was just,
>> Shirley Wu: 20 lines.
>> Shirley Wu: Gets you this pie chart.
So that's what d3 shape is great for.
>> Speaker 2: So for that one-
>> Speaker 3: Can you tell me
a little about that colors that you picked
there, or what palettes are available?
How do you set it in your own palette?
>> Shirley Wu: Okay, so yeah,
I've been ignoring the whole colors thing.
So D3 has some built in color schemes for
you,
and it's actually under the scale module.
>> Shirley Wu: Because colors
are essentially just category scales,
right?
So there is essentially some,
I think the way to think about it is,
these are basically just,
d3 has this defined for you, all of these.
And you use this as the range, the output.
So you pass in some sort of,
you don't actually need to pass in, okay.
You can use any of these as your colors.
And the way that you use it is essentially
you say create an ordinal scale,
because my inputs and
outputs are discrete and
then this line is actually
equivalent to saying,
>> Shirley Wu: It's actually equivalent to
just saying this.
The beauty of it is is that we don't have
to specify a domain when it's ordinal.
Because as you start,
I won't go into the details of that one.
But it's basically saying,
I want you to output these colors.
And that's how you can use
the colors that are built into D3.
You can also define your own colors, but
this is a super simple quick way, yeah.
And then, so you have a question?
>> Speaker 2: So
I was just trying to think through, so
it's this one instead of passing your
data directly through the SVG, do you
have this intermediary step with the arc?
>> Shirley Wu: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: But that's not the actual
path this itself the arc is generating.
>> Shirley Wu: Sorry the last part,
can you say that again?
>> Speaker 2: So
your data gets turned into angles and
then you pass it to that arc.
>> Shirley Wu: We create this arc function
and that gets passed into that arc yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Okay you created an arc
function.
And then, but that's not actually,
that's helping you generate the path and
ultimately helping you determine where
the path needs to sit.
>> Shirley Wu: Yes,
what the path should look like.
So actually, maybe it would helpful if I,
because you guys have seen, maybe this
will be helpful if I console.log.
And this is why I was like, console.log
everything because it really helps.
So let's console.log the data, and
let's also console.log what arc and
pass in the data will look like.
>> Shirley Wu: So
this is what D3 is seeing as it's
looping through all of the elements.
It's essentially our data is that
object with the start and endAngle, and
once you call arc on it,
it gives back this path command.
Thing that then get set
on the D attribute.
So I think I go to think about
these things is like SVG.
So pretty much a lot of the things that
D3 helps you do is like SVG or
a canvas likes things in
a certain like there's
the d attribute that is specified.
So svg has a certain spike, and
then D3 is just basically helping you
get your data and translate that data into
what svg takes in and what it specifies.
And that's how you can think of everything
in the D3 library, almost everything.
So what you were saying before,
like if our data is just this array or
like an array of objects,
all D3 is doing is helping us get this
to this down here that SVG
can then use to render.
And it just so happens that getting this
to that actually requires an intermediary
that get you this start and end angles.
And there's actually a lot of really, and
I think it's quite genius why it's pulled
apart, into pie and arc, because they
are times when you might only need pie,
and there are times when
you might only need arc.
So that's why it's separated out.